mvmnt
=====

MVMNT
BY PRITA PRISCILLA HASJIM

MVMNT is a web-based art project that seeks to explore patterns in our daily routines. The project is a dynamic art piece that creates sketches in real- time, using real-time data. MVMNT creates and tracks abstract sketches based on the data outputted from a live, webcam feed of UC San Diego’s Price Center Plaza. Using a motion tracker algorithm, MVMNT tracks any sort of movement or state changes and draws sketches based on those findings. The hope is to be able to store these sketches and be able to compare them with one another. By saving these dynamic illustrations, it allows the audience to observe relationships between different days and times.

The university proves to be a great source of data because people at the university are here for a number of reasons—to study, to work, to visit, etc. Time is an overarching theme of MVMNT because of the piece’s dependency. For example, the most abstracted sketches are created during high movement times (:20 - :30 or :50 - :00), simply because that is when students need to get from one class to another. The amount of movement in bodies of people determines what you see in the sketch. Additionally, the piece is determinate of specific people’s actions during those certain captured moments. Currently, people are unaware that they are helping create this dynamic art piece, so the sketches have been fairly “regular.” However, I believe once this piece is open to the
public, it has the potential of increasing more “unusual” activity in Price Center Plaza. People may also have the tendency to logon during a certain time if they are aware of a particular event, such as if a flash mob were to occur or if a local band was playing.

I was inspired by a number of projects and works. I have always been fascinated by the concept of motion and I have discovered that there is a life in movement the same way there is movement in life. I really enjoy how Alexander Chen’s Conductor creates an acoustic instrument based on New York’s train data; it is interesting to see data portrayed in a different, fun way that is completely irrelevant to the original source. Although Where People Run by Nathan Yau is purely a data-visualization, I love observing the common running routes people take around San Francisco, and I believe the map it creates is simply beautiful. A few other projects I am inspired by are 24 Hours of Happy, the first 24-hour music video, by Pharell Williams, Motion, a series of photographs of long exposure shots of dancers, by Bill Wadman, and Barack Obama: Next Industrial Revolution, a 3D printed sculpture of Barack Obama’s State of the Union Address, by Gilles Azzaro. Lastly, I was inspired by a previous project I had worked on, Right On Track, a piece that uses data outputted from the UC San Diego bus website. Like Right On Track, MVMNT uses Processing and the same method of data parsing. I was able to grab data from the Price Center Plaza’s webcam feed by looking into the website’s source code and constantly pulling video stills from the page. I wanted to make this piece accessible to everyone, however, which is why I decided to serve it on an HTML5 platform. The idea of having the piece accessible to everyone is important because not only can people—at times, unknowingly—create and participate in the art, but they can also observe and fully immerse themselves in it.

In conclusion, MVMNT is a dynamically rendered web art project that explores the idea of time, movement, people, and destination. For more information about MVMNT’s progress, please feel free to visit pritahsjm.tumblr.com.
